# GViG: Generative Visual Grounding using Prompt-based Language Modeling for Visual Question Answering

This repository contains the code and methodology used for our study presented at the WSDM 2023 Toloka VQA challenge. We reformulated the GVQA task as a language modeling problem and employed prompt tuning with predictions from state-of-the-art VQA models. The proposed approach achieved third place in the challenge benchmark.

## Requirements

- pip 21.2.4
- python 3.10.12
- pytorch 1.12.1+cu113
- torchvision 0.13.1+cu113
- opencv-python 4.6.0.66
- pytorch-lightning 1.8.4
- timm 0.6.11
- pycocotools 2.0.7
- datasets 2.7.1

## Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yiting-tom/GViG.git
make setup_env
```


## Data Preparation

### Download Data

```bash
make download_wsdm_vqa_dataset
```

This command will download the [WSDM 2023 Toloka VQA dataset](https://github.com/Toloka/WSDMCup2023#dataset) and place it in the `datasets` directory. There are two folders will be created: `datasets/images` and `datasets/offical`.
The `datasets/images` folder contains the images for the WSDM VQA dataset and the `datasets/offical` folder contains the official splits for the WSDM VQA dataset.
The `datasets/offical` folder contains the following files:
```
datasets/offical
├── train.csv
├── test_public.csv
├── test_private.csv
└── train_sample.csv
```
More details please refer to [datasets/README.md](datasets/README.md).

### Download Pretrained Models

Please go to [OFA/checkpoints.md](https://github.com/OFA-Sys/OFA/blob/main/checkpoints.md) to download the pretrained models. The pretrained models should be placed in the `checkpoints` directory. More details please refer to [pretrained_weights/README.md](pretrained_weights/README.md).


## Training & Inference

Below are the commands to train and inference the model on the WSDM 2023 Toloka VQA dataset. All the commands are stored in the `scripts` directory and all the output file will be stored in the [`results`](./results/README.md) directory.

### Before Training (Generate Prompt Tuning Data)

Before training the prompt tuning model, we need to generate the prompt tuning data. The prompt tuning data is generated by the following steps:

1. VQA model zero-shot inference on the WSDM VQA dataset:
    We use the pretrained VQA model to generate the zero-shot inference results on the WSDM VQA dataset. The zero-shot inference results are stored in the `datasets/results/vqa/<model_arch>/<exp_tag>` directory. The zero-shot inference results are generated by the following command:
    ```bash
    make eval_vqa
    ```
    This command will execute the file `scripts/evaluate_multiple_vqa_exp.sh`, so you can modify the file to change the VQA model `experiment tag`, `arch`, `checkpoint path`, `train prompt`, `val prompt`, `test prompt`, `test files`, `seed`, `beam`, `batch_size` and more.

2. Generate the prompt tuning data:
    We use the zero-shot inference results to generate the prompt tuning data. The prompt tuning data is stored in the `datasets/<raw_file_dir>` directory. The prompt tuning data is generated by the following command:
    ```bash
    make gen_prompt_data
    ```
    This command will execute the file `scripts/generate_prompt_data.sh`, so you can modify the file to change the `raw_file`, `answer files mapping`, `prompt name`, and `output file path`.

### Train

After generate the prompt tuning data, we can train the VG model. The VG model is trained by the following command:
```bash
make train
```
Ths command will execute the file `scripts/train_single_vg_exp.sh`, so you can modify the file to change all the variables. After training, the model will be saved in the `checkpoints/<model_arch>/<exp_tag>/train-P<prompt_name>/val-P<prompt_name>` directory.

### Inference

After training the VG model, we can inference the model on the test set. The inference results will be stored in the `results/<model_arch>/<exp_tag>/train-P<prompt_name>/val-P<prompt name>` directory. The inference is executed by the following command:
```bash
make eval_vg
```

That's all! Have fun! 🥳.